
# Big Picture

jQuery

* What to we REALLY do with Javascript
  * Control HTML
  * Talk to Server

* The problem: Javascript... is kind of annoying by itself
* jQuery (and more recently, Underscore) help with that
* We'll learn jQuery in the context of a space game
* jQuery PROXIES objects. And represents them as SETS.

* GAME SCORE
  * Element Creation
  * Element Insertion
  * Element Mutation
  * Element Inspection
    * Text node (score)
    * Form element (enemy name)

* ENEMIES
  * Selector Model
    * test with buttons and ship
    * CSS Manipulations
  * Animation
  * Queues: Destroy function
  * Blow up function
  *   fn(e) { e.animate().queue(function() {this.destroy()})}
  * Storing and saving data
  * $.each(arr, cb(i, v)) -- data sensitive computation - destroy less than 0 life
  * Remember: proxy. How do we get the raw element?

AN ASIDE: WIDGETS

* Objects which encapsulate and "own" some part of the page.
* Look up two ways HTML -> JS and JS -> HTML

* How do we talk about a widget?
  * How would you move a spaceship as a turn based game?

TASK: Create an Enemy Widget. Initializes to a random location.

PART 2: EVENTS

* Event Model
  * Keyboard listen - game.js console out for J and K keys, move ship
  * Button listen - game.js console out for D and F keys, rotate
  * stopPropagation and preventDefault - test with Click

PART 3: AJAX

* Talk about request, response
* Example ajax documentation
* Promises
  * jQuery: done, fail, always, then
* Async deferment problem
* Sending data from a form

AFTERNOON: SPACEGAME!!

POINTS
* most creative enemy (enemy must use ajax!) (choose your own flirkr image tag? stock ticker? random tweets?)</li>
* Spaceship control (mouse? keyboard? buttons?)
* how to kill enemy? collide in space? shoot something? they randomly die?
* enemy animation

Be creative, but focus on practicing different skills. Street cred for cool things, but more importantly a diverse set of things rather than obsessing on one.
